+++
title = "Microsoft Teams Calling"
description = "Phone calls continue to be an important part of doing business - from offices to remote sites to call centers. Nowadays most of organizations are adapting to a work from home model, and Microsoft Teams allows you to stay in touch with your team even on the go. "
date = "2020-08-10"

[taxonomies]
tags = ["microsoft teams"]
+++

Microsoft Teams Calling provides you with a secure, first -- rate
integrated calling solution built on the Microsoft cloud to streamline
and modernize your enterprise voice services. With this platform you
have everything you need to make and receive phone calls from anywhere
-- including your desk phone, mobile phone, or computer.

Microsoft 365 E5 environment includes a Phone System license for all
users, allows them to make Teams-to-Teams calls, and gives users a
robust set of features, including *Voicemail, Call forwarding*, and
*Caller ID*.

In Teams, it is possible to place one-on-one or group calls directly
from chat, from the command bar, from the calling tab, and basically
anywhere you interact with the person you want to call. These calls are
private and won\`t appear in any team conversation. You can also easily
start a new call from someone\`s profile card or from a command box at
the top of your screen and type/call, then type or select the name of
the person you want to reach.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/794.png)

If you wish to reach someone who is not in your contacts list, go to
*Calls*, click *Dial* a number, and then enter the number by using the
dial pad. You can also add a person to a call in Teams by selecting
*Show participants* in your call controls and typing their name or phone
number in the search box.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/797.png)

If you are already on a call, you can still answer or start a new call
anytime. With Teams you can always put your current call on hold and
join a new one. While a call is on hold, all participants will be
notified, and they won\`t be able to see or hear you. All your on-hold
calls display on the left side of your call window, so you can get back
to them anytime. If you need to transfer a call, Choose *More options \>
Transfer* in your call controls. It is also possible to check in with
someone before you transfer a call to them. Under Choose a person to
consult, start typing the name of the person you want to reach and
select them when they appear. You can call them or consult with them
over chat.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/796.png)

With Teams it is easy to acquire new numbers in minutes with just a few
clicks. From within the Microsoft Teams admin center, you click on Voice
and select Phone numbers. There are a few options there, you can either
Add new numbers, or Port the existing numbers.\
Teams supports many different number types, including Auto attendants,
Call queues, and Conference bridges.

-   Auto attendants are designed to let external and internal callers
    move through the system to place or transfer calls to company users
    across your organization.
-   Call queues greetings help you automatically put the calls on hold
    and handle the call while the people who call are listening to music
    on hold.
-   Voicemail is automatically set up and provisioned for users after
    you assign a Phone System license and a phone number to them.

![](https://o365hq.com/images/798.png)

![](https://o365hq.com/images/795.png)

And of course, you can also manage Teams Calling using PowerShell.
Configuring locations, acquiring and assigning phone numbers, and many
other aspects of voice management call all be done from the command
line, or saved as repeatable scripts.

Teams makes it easy to assign the newly acquired numbers to users and
you can have it completed within only a few minutes. Staying on the same
Phone numbers page, you simply select one of the numbers and click Edit.
After you have searched for the required name just click *Assign*, enter
the *Emergency location*, and click *Apply*.

Teams simplifies calling for end-users and administrators. No longer
will phone system administrators have to learn the complexity and
nuances of managing legacy on-promises phone system hardware and
software.

Teams Calling makes managing your voice need simple. Using Phone System
and Calling plans, Microsoft has made calling for a user quickly and
easily. By configuring additional features as Auto Attendants, Call
Queues, Call Canter Integration and Direct Routing, Microsoft Teams can
function as your complete calling solution. And since the admin console
is deeply integrated with your Microsoft 365 service, the time and
training required to manage your phone system is greatly reduced. And
with Teams Calling, you also get the added benefits of robust call
analytics and usage reports, as well as a complete Call quality
dashboard.